{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14000\viewh27020\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Referee(s)' Comments to Author:\
\
Referee: 1\
\
Comments to the Author\
Review of "Embedded scalars, preferred reading & intonation: An experimental revisit (JS-14-09-049)\
\
This manuscript contains three parts: \'a0(1) a review of theoretical and empirical work attempting to evaluate "traditionalist" and "grammaticalist" analyses of scalar implicatures, focusing on the existence of embedded implicatures; \'a0(2) the development of a new experimental technique for getting at just what listeners think a given sentence means; and (3) the analysis of the results of the experiment together with a presentation of a model of meaning judgments that applies to both scalar implicature and other (postnominal modification) sentences and takes into account responding biases.\
\
The first part is dense but clear and without major flaws. However, it strikes me as showing that the question of just how scalar implicatures are to be viewed is a theoretical mess. Each of the main positions has been forced to invent inadequately-justified accounts to allow the position to escape from what seems to be disconfirmations. Perhaps things really *are* complicated; questions of scalar implicatures may not yield to simple answers. Maybe all that can be done is to enumerate the possible interpretations of sentences with scalar terms (as well as impossible interpretations) and to leave it to psychology to sort out the conditions under which each interpretation is likely to be dominant. I am not sure that this is a position that is appropriate for the Journal of Semantics, but it may well be an accurate representation of the state of things. I do have one minor concern about the theoretical review. The discussion of typicality accounts of some previous data needs elaboration. I'd like to know what the authors think is typical of what, and why. \'a0What's typical about having some (or all) of some squares connected to some (or all) of some circles? \
\
The second, experimental, part is very ambitious and creative. It assumes that a listener can fix on an explicit reading of a sentence, and then request just enough information to decide whether that reading is true or false. Under the conditions of the experiment, how much information is requested and what true/false judgment is made indicates what the reading was. \'a0Upon first reading the procedures, I thought that they were far too complicated to yield interpretable data. But the results from the unambiguous positional controls shows this is wrong; in these items, subjects were remarkably accurate in making correct judgments at the correct position in the information-gathering sequence. Besides that, in the primary part of the experiment (judgments about scalar sentences, both all-some (AS) and exactly-one-some (ES) sentences) showed an overwhelming preference for literal (some and possibly all) interpretations, with a few - very few - locally strengthened interpretations, more for the ES sentences than for the AS sentences (and none of the expected effect of placing a pitch accent on 'some'). It would be possible to take this as evidence against a "grammaticalist" view, but the authors place some emphasis on the existence of these few 'local' interpretations (despite what they present as lack of statistical support that they appear to a statistically significant extent) and suggest ways that a "grammaticalist" could weasel out of the claim that localist interpretations are the norm.\
\
However, I have one major qualm about the task. Everyone agrees that "some" is typically strengthened in a simple sentence. Imagine what the present incremental verification task would be like with a simple sentence. A subject would hear something like "The letter is connected to some of its triangles." The subject then sees a picture in which one letter is shown connected to three triangles, with the connections to some unseen triangles obscured. Would the subject typically say "true" of this picture? I bet that many, perhaps most, subjects would. This would be a "literal" reading in the terms of the present paper. Would the authors thus conclude that scalar terms are not strengthened in simple sentences? To be sure, they could do an experiment like this (ideally including such simple sentences with the range of sentences studied in the present experiment) and show that I lose my bet. But in the absence of such evidence, I cannot take the present data to say anything specific about embedded implicatures. \
\
Apart from this major concern (and a concern about the "late closure" items, below) I have to say that the experiment appears to have been very carefully thought out and very carefully conducted. The use of both AS and ES sentences is admirable (despite the apparent strange interpretations a few subjects made of "exactly one"), the prosody manipulations are interesting (despite the rather extreme pitch movement in the AS/ES sentences, and the conflation of pitch accent in these sentences and intonational phrase boundaries in the "preference" sentences as an "intonational" manipulation), and the existence of the positional control sentences is admirable. \
\
I do have some concerns about the "preference-related controls." The authors assume that there is a strong late closure effect for post-nominal prepositional phrases ("This letter is connected with circles and squares with suns"). There is a huge "relative clause attachment" literature on items like these (both relative clauses and prepositional phrases) that is often interpreted as evidence against late closure preferences in that some languages show a high attachment preference. German is one such language, for relative clauses, if little or no preference for prepositional phrases (e.g. Hemforth, Konie3czn, & Scheepers, 2000). Sometimes, however, the interpretation is that lots of factors matter (e.g., Gilboy et al., Cognition 1995). Anyway, it's an odd 'control' even though there is a pretty strong preference for late closure in the data, especially strong when the sequence of images requires that an early closure interpretation be manifested as a "false" response early in the sequence of images. The effect of prosody here is clear but not particularly novel (and could be buttressed by citations of previous reports that prosodic phrase boundaries affect attachment of postnominal modifiers). The success in finding such an effect here but not in the scalar sentences can't be securely interpreted, given that the prosodic manipulations were totally different (pitch accent vs. intonational phrase boundary). \
\
The third part of the paper is the presentation of some very elaborate statistical analyses, which stretch (well, exceed) my statistical competence. There were some parts I did not understand (e.g. p 30, comparison of models with 3- vs 2-level Reading factor, why does the "more complex" model have fewer df than the less complex?). \'a0Further, the "generative Bayesian model" strikes me as egregious overkill. The basic results from the main experiment are terribly simple: literal readings are dominant, with local readings making occasional appearances. The results from the "preference controls" are not as simple, but all I see the model doing is showing that there is a positional/sequential bias that messes up the results for these controls. \
\
In short: I am not happy with the theoretical state of affairs involving embedded implicatures, but that's not the authors' fault (at least, not totally). The main experiment is ingenious and potentially very informative, *if* it is true that listeners do assign a single determinate interpretation to an AS or ES sentence (my worry is that they may merely leave the possibilities open, to be settled by other information that may be or become available). But the experimental procedure may contain a severe bias, which could be evaluated by testing simple sentences with 'some.' The positional controls are excellent; the preference controls largely just muddy the water. The data are simple and straightforward, and doing elaborate statistics simply obscures what they show - which is that better theories, or better-evaluated \'a0auxiliary assumptions, are required, before we understand what's going on with embedded implicatures.}